For uploading the distance data through `cypher-shell`, we are going to use the
`LOAD CSV` clause as describe in
https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/clauses/load-csv/.

That means we will need to prepare the CSV files that we are going to use to load
the data. The CSV files should cover the following:

- new tree node names
- new sample ids
- samples' nearest leaves
- samples' nearest neighbours

The rest of this document cover the details on how to generate CSV files for those
information.

###Tree Nodes

The phylogenetic tree we use in the Distance API should be relatively stable. The
tree nodes may have been inserted before. If that is the case, you can skip this
step. Otherwise, you can use the file in `data/neo4j.tree.ids.csv`. Make sure that
the tree nodes contained in the file are up-to-date.

###Sample IDs

Remember the id mapping csv file in the step 2 of the prerequisites section? We can
derive the sample ids from that file.
```
awk -F "," '{print $3}' dev.sample.mapping.csv > neo4j.dev.sample.ids.csv
```
**Please note that the IDs we use in the neo4j should be the tracking IDs.**

###Samples' Nearest Leaves

There is a file produced by the `mykrobe-atlas-distance-data` pipeline for samples'
nearest leaves data. The file contain one sample's nearest leaf per line. In each
tab-delimited line, a sample name and its nearest leaf json could be found. The format
of this file is designed for uploading the data through Distance API. We can easily
extract the same information in the csv format.
```
python3 bin/generate_sample_nearest_leaf_csv.py dev/dev.sample.mapping.csv /path/to/nearest_leaf > dev/neo4j.dev.sample.nearest.leaf.csv
```

###Samples' Nearest Neighbours

As an output from the `mykrobe-atlas-distance-data` pipeline, a distance matrix is
generated for distances between samples and samples. We can extract each pair of
samples from the distance matrix if the distance between them are below a threshold
we set:
```
python3 bin/generate_sample_nearest_neighbours_csv.py included.sample.mapping.csv all.sample.mapping.csv /path/to/samples_distance_matrix 10 > dev/neo4j.dev.sample.nearest.neighbours.csv
```
